The primary treatment for diabetes
is often giving the body more insulin.
There are different types of insulin,
including short-acting, or regular,
intermediate-acting or NPH, lente,
and long-acting, or ultralente.
The short-acting and longer acting
types are often combined
in a single dose.
Insulin is injected under the skin
of the thigh, arm, or abdomen.
These shots may be done from
1 to 4 or more times a day.
Here’s how to give yourself
an insulin shot:
Clean the skin where you’ll give yourself
the shot with an alcohol swab.
Gently pinch the skin
and then insert the needle
at a 45 degree angle.
Gently and steadily
push down on the plunger
to inject all the solution
under the skin.
Withdraw the needle and syringe.
Use the alcohol swab to
press down on the area
where you gave yourself the shot.
Anyone using insulin
to lower their blood sugar
must also be sure to follow
their healthcare provider's directions
for checking their blood sugar.